                         CALL FOR PARTICIPATION
         ESEC/FSE'97 Workshop on Object-Oriented Reengineering
                   Zurich, Friday September 26, 1997

             Version 1.0 -- Latest Revision: May, 14th, 1997
                  http://iamwww.unibe.ch/~famoos/ESEC97/

Objective

The ability to reengineer object-oriented legacy systems has become a
vital matter in today's software industry. Early adopters of the
object-oriented programming paradigm are now facing the problem of
transforming their object-oriented "legacy" systems into full-fledged
frameworks. Dealing with programs exceeding 10,000 lines of badly
documented code definitely requires support from tools as well as
methodologies.

The Workshop on Object-Oriented Reengineering wants to gather people
working on solutions for object-oriented legacy systems. We explicitly
solicit experience reports from the software industry as well as
contributions from tool producers and methodology providers. The
workshop itself will be set up as a forum for exchanging experiences,
discussing solutions, and exploring new ideas.


Specific areas of interest include, but are not limited to:

   * Experience reports from object-oriented reengineering projects
   * Methods and techniques
   * Tool-support
   * Metrics and evaluation
   * Migration to object-oriented frameworks
   * Migration from procedural implementations
   * Object-oriented schema integration
   * Architectural issues
   * Object-oriented analysis and design issues
   * Design patterns in reengineering practices



ESEC/FSE'97

The Workshop is organised in conjunction with the "Sixth European
Software Engineering Conference / Fifth ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on the
Foundations of Software Engineering" Conference, to be held in Zurich -
Switzerland from September 22-25, 1997.
	http://www.ifi.unizh.ch/congress/esec97.html

Intended Audience

The workshop is intended for software engineering professionals with
experience in object-oriented reengineering; either people who are
actively engaged in reengineering projects, or people who develop
methodologies and tools. Similar workshops held at other conferences
(OOPSLA'95, OOPSLA'96, ECOOP'97), show that it is possible to gather a
group of about 10 persons for a whole day of fruitful discussions.

Preparation

In order to make efficient use of the one day we have at our disposal,
we want to pay special attention to the preparation of the workshop. We
request each participant to submit a position paper in advance, so that
all participants can get acquinted with the ideas that exist within the
group.  Each participant is supposed to read all the submitted
material, so that the workshop itself can be devoted to discussion
instead of presentations.  Submissions will be made electronically to
facilitate the rapid exchange of information.

The upper limit for the number of participants is 20 and the
particpants will be selected on the basis of the submitted material.
The maximum number of particpants per position paper is limited to 2.

Important Dates

   * Friday, 27.07.97: Submission of position papers due.
   * Friday, 15.08.97: Notification of acceptance.
   * Monday, 01.09.97: Preliminary Program available.
   * Friday, 26.09.97: Workshop on OO Renginerring

Submission Guidelines

  1. Be standard. There is lot's of work on re-engineering out there, which
     gives rise to some terminology conflicts. We encourage people to use
     the re-engineering taxonomy defined in Reverse Engineering and Design
     Recovery : A Taxonomy by E.J. Chikofsky and J.H. Cross II -- IEEE
     Software, January 1990. Check http://www.tcse.org/revengr/taxonomy.html
     for an online summary.
  2. Be electronic. Submit your position paper in HTML (preferably),
     postcript or PDF, so that we can collect all of the submissions on a
     web-site. A separate abstract including the e-mail addresses of the
     authors and URL's of their home pages MUST be submitted in HTML.
     Submit everything by e-mail to [ demeyer@iam.unibe.ch].
  3. Be focussed. Propose only one idea. We all know that you are a quality
     researcher with plenty of good ideas. Only, we have limited resources
     and we must focus. Please keep all position papers under five pages.
  4. Be relevant. Propose an idea that is relevant to object-oriented
     re-engineering. Refer to the list of specific areas of interest.
  5. Be innovative. Propose some recent idea that still has some unfinished
     sides to it. It is supposed to be a WORKshop, not a mini-conference.
  6. Be a rebel. Neglect these guidelines if you feel that your idea needs a
     special treatment in some way.

About the Organizers

The organizers of the workshop are from the University of Berne,
Switzerland and the Technical University of Vienna, Austria. Serge
Demeyer, from the University of Berne, is a member of the Software
Composition Group headed by Professor O. Nierstrasz. Harald Gall, from
the Technical University of Vienna, is a member of the Distributed
Systems Group headed by Professor M.  Jazayeri. Both groups are
participating in ESPRIT research projects concerning reengineering
which are FAMOOS and ARES respectively.

Serge Demeyer
     Serge Demeyer research focuses primarily on possible
     cross-fertilizations between the software engineering and hypermedia
     domains. He is currently the co-ordinator of the FAMOOS reengineering
     project at the University of Berne. Serge Demeyer co-organised the '2nd
     Workshop on Open Hypermedia Systems' and participated in many other
     Open Hypermedia Workshops. He holds a Ph.D. in Computer Science (1997)
     from the 'Vrije Universiteit Brussel' - Belgium.
     demeyer@iam.unibe.ch
     http://iamwww.unibe.ch/~demeyer/
Harald Gall
     Harald Gall is currently program committee member of the 1997 Working
     Conference on Reverse Engineering (WCRE '97), the 1997 Workshop on
     Program Comprehension (IWPC '97) and the ICSE'97 Workshop on Migration
     Strategies for Legacy Systems. His research interests include
     reengineering, software architecture, and object-oriented technologies.
     He is currently involved in the architecture recovery tasks of the ARES
     project and in the object-oriented re-architecturing project CORET. He
     holds an M.Sc. and a Ph.D. in computer science from the Technical
     University of Vienna.
     H.Gall@infosys.tuwien.ac.at
     http://www.infosys.tuwien.ac.at/Staff/hg/mypage.html
