           ESEC/FSE'99 Workshop on Object-Oriented Reengineering
               Toulouse (France), Monday September 6th, 1999

                  http://www.iam.unibe.ch/~famoos/ESEC99/

Important Dates

   * Sunday, 12.07.99: Submission of position papers.
   * Monday, 02.08.99: Notification of acceptance.
   * Monday, 16.08.99: Final camera-ready papers and preliminary program
   * Monday, 06.09.99: WOOR'99

Objective

The ability to reengineer object-oriented legacy systems has become a vital
matter in today's software industry. Early adopters of the object-oriented
programming paradigm are now facing the problem of transforming their
object-oriented "legacy" systems into full-fledged frameworks. Dealing with
programs exceeding 10,000 lines of poorly documented code definitely
requires support from tools as well as methodologies.

The Workshop on Object-Oriented Reengineering (WOOR) wants to gather people
working on solutions for object-oriented legacy systems. We explicitly
solicit experience reports from the software industry as well as
contributions from tool producers and methodology providers. The workshop
itself will be set up as a forum for exchanging experiences, discussing
solutions, and exploring new ideas.

Specific areas of interest include, but are not limited to:

   * Experience reports from object-oriented reengineering projects
   * Methods and techniques
   * Tool-support
   * Metrics and evaluation
   * Migration to object-oriented frameworks
   * Migration from procedural implementations
   * Object-oriented schema integration
   * Architectural issues
   * Object-oriented analysis and design issues
   * Design patterns in reengineering practices
   * Reverse- and reengineering patterns

Intended Audience

The workshop is intended for software engineering professionals with
experience in object-oriented reengineering; either people who are actively
engaged in reengineering projects, or people who develop methodologies and
tools. Similar workshops held at ESEC (ESEC'97) as well as other conferences
(OOPSLA, ECOOP) show that it is possible to gather a group of about 15
researchers and practitioners for a whole day of fruitful discussions.

Submission of Position Papers

In order to make efficient use of the one day we have at our disposal, we
want to pay special attention to the preparation of the workshop. We request
each participant to submit a position paper in advance (<= 10 pages), so
that all participants can get acquinted with the ideas that exist within the
group. Each participant is supposed to read all the submitted material, so
that the workshop itself can be devoted to discussion instead of
presentations. Submissions will be made electronically to facilitate the
rapid exchange of information.

Position papers will be collected in a technical report of TUV, so that
references too the position papers will be possible.

The upper limit for the number of participants is 20 and the particpants
will be selected on the basis of the submitted material. The maximum number
of particpants per position paper is limited to 2.

To submit a position paper, send HTML, pdf of postcript to
demeyer@iam.unibe.ch. Send a separate mail with the abstract and the e-mail
addresses of the authors and URL's of their home pages in plain ASCII.
Submission guidelines at
http://www.iam.unibe.ch/~famoos/ESEC99/howtosubmit.html.

About the Organizers

Both organizers are participating in ESPRIT research projects concerning
reengineering which are FAMOOS and ARES respectively.

Serge Demeyer
     Serge Demeyer is a post-doctoral researcher at Software Composition
     Group (headed by Professor O. Nierstrasz and located in the University
     of Berne - Switzerland) where he serves as the technical leader of the
     ESPRIT project FAMOOS. He is active in the international
     object-oriented and hypermedia research communities. Among others, he
     is a member of a program committee (Webnet'99), he served twice as a
     workshop chair (Hypertext'99, ECOOP'98), he is or was involved in the
     organisation of several workshops (ECOOP'99 Workshop Object-Oriented
     Architectural Evolution; ESEC/FSE'97 Workshop on Object-Oriented
     Reengineering; 2nd Workshop on Open Hypermedia Systems) and he acted as
     a reviewer for many hypermedia and software engineering related
     conferences and journals. He completed his M.Sc. in 1987 and his Ph.D.
     in 1996, both at the "Vrije Universiteit Brussel" (Belgium).
                  e-mail: demeyer@iam.unibe.ch
Harald Gall
     Harald Gall is currently program committee member of the International
     Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 2000) and Program Co-Chair of
     the International Workshop on Program Comprehension (IWPC 2000). His
     research interests are reengineering, software architecture, software
     maintenance and evolution, and object-oriented technologies. He was
     involved in the architecture recovery tasks of the ESPRIT project ARES
     and in the object-oriented re-architecturing project CORET. He holds an
     M.Sc. and a Ph.D. in computer science from the Technical University of
     Vienna, Austria, where he is currently assistant professor in the
     Distributed Systems Group.
                  e-mail: H.Gall@infosys.tuwien.ac.at
