  Report: Workshop on Object-Oriented Reengineering (WOOR'99)
       Toulouse / France , Monday September 6th, 1999


                 Serge Demeyer and Harald Gall
          Version 1.0 -- Last revision: October, 6th 1999



On September 6th, 1999 a workshop on the theme of Object-Oriented
Reengineering was organized in conjunction with the ESEC/FSE'99
conference in Toulouse, France. This workshop was the second in its
row, the first was held during the ESCE/FSE Workshop in Zurich, 1997
(see http://www.iam.unibe.ch/~famoos/ESEC97/).

The workshop included 5 papers and attracted 8 participants from
Europe, America and Asia. The papers covered a diverse range of
topics:  from UML, exchange models, architecture, visualization, to
procedural to object-based transformation.

Although this time the workshop did not attract as many participants as
in 1997, it turned out to be a very productive day with lots of
sparkling discussions and fresh insights.

Below is a list of resolutions and recommendations that we wanted to
share with other reserachers and practicioners.

* What is a "better system" ?

  If someone wants to reengineer a system, there is always the
  underlying question to improve that system. However, what criteria
  should one use to assess improvement ? The consensus within the group
  was that these criteria should always stem from the business case
  that serves as the reengineering context. If not, the field will
  loose its credibility. In that context it is also good to point out
  that reengineers should be aware of reengineering economics, i.e.
  analyzing whether the cost is worth the gain.

* How to organize tool- and method-adoption ?

  Accepting the idea that reengineering needs a business case, implies
  that one must take special care to convince software industry to
  adopt methods and tools. Here as well a practical and down-to-earth
  approach seems most appropriate. For instance, make sure that your
  tools and methods fit in well with existing business processes. Also,
  consider a positive "Trojan horse" approach by injecting tools,
  methods and students into existing (industrial) projects. "Do the
  simplest thing that may possibly work" may serve as a guiding
  principle, especially concerning the trade-off between automated
  versus manual approaches.

* What is the "big picture" of a system ?

  While reverse engineering there is often the need or goal for the
  "big picture" of the system. Concerning such an overview blueprint,
  the group agreed that the presence of UML as a de facto standard is a
  good thing, although we concluded that in itself UML is not
  sufficient.  Something especially lacking is a format for exchanging
  "big pictures", the Big Picture eXchange Format (BPIXF) as we called
  it. Related to system blueprints is visualization in general, which
  is considered a good practice for program understanding. Especially
  because --as was experienced by all practitioners around the table--
  documentation is and will always be incomplete. Given this insight,
  humans are necessary in any reengineering loop, yet the question when
  to inject human expertise remains an open one.

* What makes object-oriented reengineering different from normal
  reengineering ?

  Although the group did not tackle that question explicitly, some of
  the issues raised during the discussions were relevant in that
  context. For instance, it was pointed out that combining static and
  dynamic analysis is much more relevant in object-oriented
  reengineering because of late binding. Also, the issue of
  distribution --when required for the particular business case-- often
  provides a motive for migrating towards objects.


In general the workshop raised several interesting research and
practice questions that were discussed on the basis of individual
industrial experiences. If we had to summarize the results of the
workhop in one day it would sound like:  "Reengineer always on the
basis of a business case and do the simplest thing possible".

For more information, the workshop papers and the list of participants
can be consulted on the web (http://www.iam.unibe.ch/~famoos/ESEC99/).
The papers are also available as a technical report from the Technical
University of Vienna in Austria (TUV-1841-99-13) at
http://www.infosys.tuwien.ac.at.
